cool thanks for coming along this is
IELTS reading super skills by e2
language my name is Jay I'm one of the
expert teachers why am I an expert teach
what makes me an expert well I've taken
the IELTS actually and I got a 9 in
IELTS reading I've also got a background
in linguistics and languages and so have
the other teachers here at e2 language
we sort of we'd like to think that we
stand out from the crowd a little bit
let's do a warm-up one of the one of the
the key things about IELTS reading is
your ability to identify synonyms
because in question prompt and in the
passage we use different words they want
they won't use the exact same words
they'll use synonyms so let's warm up I
want you to find the synonyms in this
passage here just as a hint number one
will be at the top of the passage number
13 will be at the bottom of the passage
will follow a sequence
you
[Music]
do it quickly do it quickly I don't care
if you make a mistake I want you to move
quickly not too carefully
[Music]
faster-faster-faster
good Suresh well done good a dose go to
nada
30 seconds left you need to move fast
30 seconds starting now
you
good uh Bonet well done that's a good
one reciprocate
okey-dokey let's have a look at the
answers here all right as I said my
health reading is all about synonyms
here you can imagine that you're going
to get your question and here is the
passage now the question will mention
something about tops then in the passage
it's going to not mention the same word
it's going to have a synonyms of
rainforest and I'll have a synonym
obtained and we'll have a synonym find
the answer to here's the question for
example it will have a synonym in the
passage your ability to look at the
question identify keyword and find the
synonym in the passage is basically the
key to IELTS reading let's look at the
answers so tops higher reach of
rainforests tropical let me disappear
rainforests tropical forests obtained
come by find the answer to solve
intimate closed
so you can imagine that in the question
it says something about the intimate
relationship and here it says
relationships that involve close
intimate close these are synonyms give
provide in the question will say
something like what do the plants give
to the ants and here it says the plants
provide blah blah blah stock supply
reciprocate return the favor that's a
difficult one but that's what
reciprocity means to reciprocate means
to return the favor
so when the questioner might say
something about the ants reciprocating
and in the text in the passage it will
say the ants return the favor
plant food fertilizer and poo fecal
matter disintegrates break down here we
have a verb here we have a phrasal verb
two-part phrasal verb understandings
insights and here's a bit of a trick 13
is biotic adaptation and here's biotic
adaptation you should remember that
sometimes you cannot have a synonym some
words there are no synonyms for example
evolution there are no similar synonyms
for evolution or biotic adaptation for
example so sometimes in the question
same identical word will be used in the
passage but 99% of the time will be a
synonym let's continue with this synonym
practice before we do our mock test I
want you to find the synonym for jump
I'm going to show you a whole paragraph
I'm only going to give you I don't know
20 seconds to find the synonym for jump
your time starts now
jump
did you find it good a bit Moline a
dress well done ten seconds left three
two one stop
cool so what's the synonym for jump
what about leap leap and jump so the
question says jump you quickly scan your
eyes over the text and you see the word
leap it's a synonym you know that you
must read in this section here let's do
it again
find the synonym for runaway from
runaway from in 20 seconds your time
starts now
ten seconds
[Music]
and stop that's 20 seconds cool so we're
looking for a synonym for the phrase run
away from and we look here we go fish no
looking at the main words I mean
scanning our eyes and we whoa what's
this one
escape run away from escape synonyms
find the synonym for the word hostile
hostile starting now hostile
you
good aegis not quite address good
address that's better good Joe Murray
hostile I'll give you a bit more time
for this one
hostile
you
cool alright stop there
let's we're looking for the word hostile
hostile hostile
hmm what's this enemy filled enemy Phil
maybe the question says something about
a hostile environment for example a
hostile environment that's a collocation
or an enemy filled hostile enemy filmed
they are synonyms cool let's do another
warm-up skill before we do our mock test
I want you to scan read the paragraph to
find the main idea fast what I mean by
this is I'm going to show you a
paragraph I want you to quickly read it
quickly read it then I'm going to give
you four answer options that contains
what the main idea of the paragraph is
and you have to choose the best one so
quickly scan read what the scan read
mean well does it read does it mean that
you read carefully every word because
you want to absorb all the information
in all the details no there's not enough
time in IELTS read carefully and deeply
it's not a relaxing Sunday afternoon
what you have to do is scan read that
means that you just quickly scan your
eyes over looking at all the key words
like nouns verbs and adjectives ignoring
the grammar e words to pick out the main
idea I wanted to scan read this
paragraph in 30 seconds starting now
20 seconds left cool okay let's just
quickly look at this it says male
domestic fowl hmm it's a type of chicken
it's not a chicken I believe it's called
a rooster a rooster rooster male male
fowl cool now I want you to read these
answer options and I want you to find
the answer option best summarizes this
paragraph you have 30 seconds starting
now okay hmm
people writing see I'm not quite sure
let me read this male domesticated fowl
or roosters are less aggressive towards
related males than to unrelated males
when competing for females
this suggests that domestic fowl can
recognize the kin among individuals in a
group and that their behavior is
different towards kin and non-kin now
what's the main idea of this paragraph
hens behave strangely around roosters no
roosters are nicer to their relatives
hmm possibly they're less aggressive
towards related males and here it says
their behavior is different towards kin
and non-kin that's possible
see roosters compete for females well
they're doing this when they compete for
females so that's not the main idea of
the paragraph that's a little part of it
but the main part is that they're less
aggressive towards related males
chickens are usually unaggressive
incorrect the answer is B roosters and
nicer to their relatives so if we were
to summarize this into a single sentence
it would be B let's try it again
the scan read the paragraph to find the
main idea fast
read it again okay now is it a B C or D
if we summarize this if we boil this
down into a single sentence which answer
option best captures the main idea cool
let's have a look at the answer let me
read the paragraph it says it long been
associated with anger and coarseness but
profanity or swearing can have another
more positive connotation psychologists
have learned people who frequently curse
are more honest now we've got some
synonyms swear curse swearing cursing
swearing cursing okay fine
people who swear are less likely to
curse okay people who frequently curse
are more honest hmm they say the same
thing but in different words that's a
good thing swearing can have positive
effects well not really it doesn't say
that psychologists believe swearing can
have positive mental effects yeah not
really people who swear are usually
angrier definitely not the best summary
of this paragraph is a people who swear
are less likely to lie people who
frequently curse are more honest these
two things say the same things but the
same thing but in different
a lot of IELTS in finding the right
answers when the question and the
passage say the same thing but in
different words that's a lot of IELTS
reading right so we're going to do an
IELTS reading mock test but we're going
to do it a little bit differently I'm
going to give you two tests okay the
first quick I'm going to show you a
question type and the first question
type I show you will be dead simple
it'll be so simple that you'll just go
does it B or a or C right and the idea
is that I want you to understand the
question type because I think the
hardest thing in IELTS reading is not
understanding the passage but
understanding the format of the question
because some of them are truly confusing
and if you can understand the question
type and you know what it's asking you
then you can concentrate more on
understanding the passage so we're going
to do a dead simple one so you can get
the concept of the question then we're
going to do a more complex one all that
will change will be the content of the
passage in the question I want you to
understand the format before we do that
I want you to write down on a piece of
paper one two three four five six seven
eight nine this will be your answer
sheet and when we do the IELTS the the
mock test the real one the hard one I
want you to write your answer beside the
number on your answer sheet so please
copy this down just write the numbers 1
to 9 in a vertical vertical line place
I'll just give you 10 seconds to do that
then we'll start
you
[Music]
okey-dokey
now with the civil ones don't write it
on your answer sheets just practice okay
all right so we're going to do first of
all multiple-choice simple
multiple-choice simple this is what it
looks like on test day this is what the
question looks like and it can be
confusing so this is question question 1
& 2 says choose the appropriate answer a
B C or D a B C or D write your answer
four questions one to two on your answer
sheet don't write it on your answer
sheet this is just a practice
what color is Jay's car from whom did J
purchase his car let me disappear answer
these two questions please
[Music]
good so deep back the answer will be not
the words but the letters remember it
says here choose the appropriate a B C
or D so we're writing the letter not the
word good let's have a look this is dead
simple dead simple what color is Jay's
car it's red C 1 C J has a red car from
whom from who or whom did J purchase his
car rattle smoke J or Tim the answer is
D Tim he bought his car off his uncle
Tim so if you had C and D well done
let's apply that understanding to a
multiple choice but a real one with
difficult difficult reading now I'll
give you a few minutes to enter this one
and write this one on your answer sheet
[Music]
you
see you check your number too
Nizar check your number too
Fenne - engine check your number two
our bid to kill number two
you
good 30 seconds left 10 seconds Oh
keoki rights let's have a look at the
answers here let me disappear I'm going
to quickly read the paragraph when you
look to be honest when I did my IELTS I
didn't actually read the passages from
beginning to end there's not enough time
I just went to the question looked at
the question went back to the passage
quickly sped scan read the passage to
find the corresponding keyword read for
it got the answer
moved on to the next month there's not
enough time to begin and lazily read
through passage then go back to the
questions start with the question move
to the passage move through as you go
nevertheless I'm going to read this just
for you when people are listening to
music their emotional reactions to the
music are reflected in changes in their
pupil size both the emotional content of
the music and the listeners personal
involvement with music influence pupil
dilation researchers are using pupil
size measurement to probe listeners
reactions to music that's all we need to
know so pupil size naturally adjusts to
the volume of the music doesn't mention
volume here know the beat of the music
does it mention the beat know the
emotion conveyed by the music hmm when
people are listening to music are the
emotional content of the muse
influences pupil dilation so we've got C
says it here pupil size naturally adjust
to the emotion conveyed by the music the
emotional content of the music
influences pupil dilation fine what
about to why our pupil size is being
emitted let says here researchers are
using pupil size measurement there's
your keyword corresponding statement in
the paragraph to pro listeners reactions
to music to improve musical reactions no
to gauge reactions to music hmm sounds
good to modulate thoughts not to solve
complex problems no the answer is here
why our pupil size is being measured by
the researchers well researchers are
using pupil size measurement to probe
listeners reactions to music to gauge
probe reactions to music these two say
the same thing but in different words
also if you had C and B please write
that on your answer sheet number one C
number two B will move on to true/false
and not given simple we're going to do a
dead simple first so you understand the
concept okay right what you need to do
is basically you look at the statement
it says J owns a green car you look at
the text it says J has a red car
is this true does it agree is it false
does it contradict or say something
completely different or not given is
there no information about the color of
my car I want you to go through and
answer these questions very quickly you
have one minute
a Juris check your number three please
ten seconds
good all right well done that's one
minute right let's look at the answers
okay so J owns a green car is this true
false or not given let's read the test
it says J has a red car so this is false
this says J has a red car
this is J owns a green car they are
contradictory they say the opposite not
the opposite they say contradictory
things okay this is not true my car is
red not green so it's false
what about J's car is old okay let's
keep breeding J has a red car he bought
it bought his car off his uncle Tim for
$400 so it's cheap is it Albert well we
don't know it rattles and it smokes okay
so it's it doesn't it's broken down it's
not a good quality car but is it old
well I don't know it depends it doesn't
say it rattles and it smokes but it
still works so it's reliable but is it
old it does not say in this text if I
car is old there is no way to know I
cannot know from this text all I know is
that my car is red it's cheap 400 bucks
and it's got some mechanical problems it
could be new it could be red I bought it
from Tim because he's really rich and he
said just give me $400 I'm assuming
something if I assume something I can't
assume anything this is not given it's
not given it does not say in the text if
my car is old and I cannot assume
anything therefore I must write not
given so the answer to Question 4 is not
given
what about question 5 gerrant J owns a
red car well yes J owns a red car J has
a red car he bought it off his uncle yes
this is true so false not given and true
dead simple now we're going to apply
true false not given to some real
content I'm going to give you a few
minutes to answer these questions
you
[Music]
that was not
my phone
[Music]
thirty seconds left
cool alright let's look at the answers
here let's quickly read the text is the
boy or is the girl four baby sea turtles
it's not that cut and dry because they
the baby sea turtles don't have an X or
Y chromosome baby sea turtles sex is
defined during development by the
incubation environment the nests thermal
environment determines whether an embryo
will develop as a male or female warmest
sand temperatures produce more females
and coolers and images produce more
males to make things even more
complicated in some species of sea
turtles their sexual anatomy is not
physically apparent until about a decade
or so when they approach sexual maturity
so three sea turtle sex is determined by
chromosomal changes they don't have an X
or Y chromosome it says here their sex
is defined during development by the
incubation environment this is
contradictory this is false it cut this
statement contradicts or says something
opposite or other than this statement
here
what about this one fluctuating sand
temperatures effect turtle lifespans hmm
well it says warmer sound temperatures
produce more females and cooler sand
temperatures produce more males okay
doesn't say maybe but we can't assume
anything we can't assume anything
therefore it's going to be not given
what about number five sea turtle sexual
anatomy is only visible after
approximately 10 years well let's go
back one okay and it's this last
sentence here to make things even more
complicated in some species of sea
turtles their sexual anatomy is not
physically apparent sea turtle sexual
anatomy is only visible physically
apparent until about a decade or so
after approximately 10 years this is
true number five is true so three is
false
four is not given and five is true so on
your answer sheet you would write false
not given and true for three four and
five cool how did you go just give me a
smiley face in the chat if you got that
one smiley face
good nice good well spotted there Maria
um did I agree a few actually good nice
you got it great work
cool let's move on let's do this one
here this is also a complicated question
type in IELTS because it has lots of
parts match sentence endings let's do a
dead simple super easy ones super easy
so get the idea right this is what it
looks like on test day okay you'll see
something that looks like this it says
you need to complete each sentence with
the correct ending a to see from the box
below
okay here's the box below anyway forget
the instructions they're too confusing
let me explain it to you
here is the first part of the sentence
J's uncle Tim now you need to find the
part of the sentence
well J's uncle Tim still runs it's
grammatically possible J's uncle Tim
sold him the car for 400 bucks J's uncle
Tim is read all of these are possible
but only one will be correct according
to the text so is it going to be 6a 6b
or 6c now do the rest of
[Music]
ten and seconds left
you
cool let's have a look at this dead
simple example so Jay's uncle Tim he
bought his car off he uncle Tim for $400
Jays uncle Tim sold him the car for $400
good six B so you would write B on your
answer sheet what about number seven
though the car rattles it still runs is
red hmm it rattles and it smokes but it
still works it still runs cool 7a though
the car rattles it still runs an eight
J's car is red J has a red car cool it
so easy
let's try match sentence endings for
real I'll disappear and give you a few
minutes to do this one here
you
[Music]
- easy
30 seconds left if you're watching on
YouTube please give a thumbs up for e2
language like this video alright let's
have a look at the answers here alright
so we know this text we've read this
passage now now we can really just start
to use key words so increase and
temperatures now we remembered that the
sound temperature bit was around here
okay says warmest and temperatures
produce more females so increased sand
temperatures so warmer down temperatures
produce more females so we've got
increase and temperatures and we're
looking for that other half produce more
females produce more yield higher
numbers of females interesting so 6c
increase and temperatures yield higher
numbers of females says the same thing
as this sentence here warmer centimetres
produce more females what about number
seven the sex of baby sea turtles hmm is
determined by the temperature of the
nest are the result while it can't be
the sexes are the result it can't be
this one grammatically so 7b is
impossible the sex of baby sea turtles
is reached after about ten years and
well no so we're going to go with 7a and
it also says it here the nests thermal
environment or heat or the temperature
determines whether an embryo will
develop as a male or female the sex of
baby sea turtles is determined by the
temperature of the nest this 7a says the
same thing as this sentence here a
higher number of males
hmm is reached after about 10 years now
a higher number a higher number a high
number of males this is actually
grammatically wrong this is my fault
should be is the results are the results
so it must be 8b a higher a high number
of males are the result of coldest and
cool the sand temperatures produce more
males a B I'm sorry 8b says the same
thing as this sentence here finally the
sexual maturity of Turtles is reached
after about 10 years 9 d sea turtles a
decade or so when they approach sexual
maturity cool well done well done
so these are the answers to the
questions and this is what your answer
sheet will look like when you take the
Isles so it was 1 C 2 B 3 false for not
given 5 true 6 c 7 a 8 b + 9 d what was
your score out of 9 and just please type
into the chat 8 out of 9 for deep back
all correct for Benny Joey 9 8 9 9 9 8 8
9 5 all incorrect for da ville' 9 9 6 6
7 9 8 colored arm 8 Sarika unarmed got 8
out of 9 Roth got 9 amid got 7 cool good
stuff even if you got 9 or 8 or 7 or
even if you got 0 you probably still
need to practice while I've got you here
I'm going to talk about why you should
upgrade your e to language package why
should you do that
why should you spend money on ET
language calm whoo
there are a few important reason by
first is that you depending on your
package will receive a study plan where
you can meet a teacher like me who has
taken the ions before and we will talk
to you about what you need to do to pass
the test unlike all the other junk on
YouTube we have methods like what you
saw tonight we have methods for writing
task 1 writing task 2 speaking reading
all question types and listening
we give you methods we simplify it we
build your skills we also have quality
practice materials we give you feedback
on your speaking and writing we offer as
part of your package one-on-one
tutorials with expert teachers live
classes every Monday Tuesday Wednesday
and Thursday as well as constant
motivation if you want to succeed on
your IELTS test then upgrading to e to
language comm is a damn good idea cool
ah let's go to Q&A because we've got
some interesting questions here Shiva
says excellent class I'm glad Thank You
Shiva
Deepak question do we always have all
three options in the answer or is a
pablor that could be multiple true and
no false not given okay
good Deepak so Deepak is asking in true
false not given let's say there are
three true false not given but always
have one true one false and not one not
given no they may be all true they may
all be false they all may be not given
or it might be true true false or it
might be true not give not given so you
have to be prepared it depends on the
text a beard huh it was much tougher in
the actual IELTS test than this one to
be honest
well maybe you've just gotten better
nazar is that enough for me to go to the
exam right now don't do that please
don't take the exam without preparing
properly because well I see hundreds
hundreds of people a TT language calm
who try the exam try it again try it
again and then by their third or fourth
attempt when some cases ten twelve
fourteen the highest number we're seeing
is sixteen attempts before the person
went to get some help in preparation
don't do that
that is seriously thousands of dollars
that you'll spend on taking the test
when you could just prepare improve your
English pass the test and feel good
about yourself Maria I'm confused
between choosing IELTS or Pte I watched
your video on practice and articles -
okay Pte or ions which one well Pte is
more difficult for speaking and IELTS is
more difficult for writing so if you're
a good writer and a bad seeker do IELTS
if you're a good speaker and a bad
writer do Pte that's the simple answer
to that one cool cool cool cool cool
what else we got
we'll do next week and on will do
sentence completion so please come back
next Thursday for the next one or do
the other question time slowly we'll
work through them all it Sam do you have
any other classes for speaking writing
and listening to study IELTS yes yes
we've got it all and we have some really
cool not cool we have some really
effective methods for speaking for
writing and for learning if you want to
check out a video on YouTube go to our
Channel and watch the latest IELTS
speaking strategy video it's very very
interesting
Samiha last exam I got seven but I
thought I had higher
that's a understand completely Samia I'm
mostly taking the IELTS academic again
because I wanted to get a nine in
everything but I couldn't I got all I
got a hundred percent in the Pte for
everything
I took the IELTS and I did not get a
hundred percent I'm too embarrassed to
tell you my score I'll tell you next
week whether I get a nine Nizza what
part of the questions is the easiest to
start with the exam multiple-choice is
the easiest what's the most difficult
question type probably true false not
given
Shahana match matching is also hard
ah will do mate might do that next week
Shahana so please come back IMed Express
package amount allows me to the live
classes yes okay so into language comm
has just launched an express package so
if you're worried about money we do have
a cheap one that does not have any
tutorials or no study plan but you do
get access to all of the methods all of
the practice materials and you can join
the live classes so that might be money
well spent
Lucas I'm a bit worried about my speed
yes
scan reading and reading quickly is a
real key for IELTS reading abbien I'm
preparing for the PT this time I got
speaking 8 did too did okay fine de nada
I have two months but I don't feel
confident register with e to builds your
confidence do this properly but still
hey J my exam is on the 5th of
may what plan can you suggest I take
from each language well you've got whoa
what's you've got one month so in fact
you could take any plan so it just
depends on how much help you want deepak
will might do complete person sent in
what's a called sentence completion
sentence completion next week Maria
interesting Maria says 50 in PT speaking
is the same as 7 in IELTS speaking yeah
I would agree it's about difficult a
dose is it possible to get at least 8 or
7.5 with upper intermediate level Oh
nope truly IELTS is the way IELTS mock
writing is crazy I have to say I have to
say the way they make my writing is
crazy but the way that PT e marks
speaking is also crazy so there you go
ruff how much time I will take to study
IELTS very good well depends on your
current level of English
Sarika my exam is on the 29th of April
what plan do I need to take you take the
first or you could take the Express the
first or the second I think Shiva I'm
preparing for is general please guide me
to do best yes we have IELTS general as
well we have IELTS general and academic
toughie cool I'm sitting before once for
IELTS it's not up to mark so I need more
improvement from my reading writing or
speaking yes e to language my man e to
language we'll do that one next week
Nizar
cool what else we got Lucas what time is
the class Nick the same time Lucas so
it's 9 p.m. Melbourne time Vasile but
still please email hello at e2 language
or I totally recommend is going to the
website right now and choosing a package
and upgrading if you change your mind
you can always go up in packages as well
Salomon my examination is on the 13th of
May what package should I go for that
means you've got about 6 weeks so you
can in fact choose any of them Salomon
it depends if you're confident choose a
cheaper package if you're not confident
choose the more expensive ones because
it means you get more one-on-one
tutorial help and feedback and
everything you need if you're unsure
about the package you can upgrade
between packages so you can start on tip
1 and upgrade to the next or you can
email hello Eddie to language comm
please check out into language comm
other than that thanks very much for
coming I totally enjoyed this one I hope
you enjoyed it I hope you learn from it
ion's
can actually be made simple there is a
way to do it and to make it and to build
your confidence please come again next
week because I'll do this again and
we'll do different question types with
different skills so pleasure teaching
you I'll see you soon I'm going to just
disappear
you